This repository provides source code for four programs: deva-filter,
deva-visibility, make-coordinates-file, and deva-visualize-geometry.
deva-filter simulates visibility under reduced acuity and contrast
sensitivity.  It is intended to assist architects and lighting designers
identify mobility hazards and important navigational landmarks that may
not be visible to those with low vision. deva-visibility provides the
full functionality of deva-filter, plus also provides an analysis
combining the output of deva-filter with information about scene
geometry to automatically estimate likely visual hazards associated with
mobility impediments invisible to those with a particular level of
visual impairment.  make-coordinates-file is a helper program used to
create one of the input files needed by deva-visibility.
deva-visualize-geometry is a utility program to display geometry
files used by deva-visibility.

deva-filter only accepts Radiance HDR files with correct VIEW records as
input.  It only outputs Radiance HDR files.  deva-visibility accepts as
input Radiance HDR files, plus Radiance ASCII files providing
information about scene geometry.  It outputs a Radiance HDR file, as
with deva-filter, and a separate PNG file with a visualization of
estimated visual hazards.

WARNING: deva-visibility is still under active development and is likely
to change over time.

The software can be built on either Linux or MacOS.  Windows binaries
are also provided, cross complied on a Linux system using Mingw-w64.

The deva-filter is described in W.B. Thompson, G.E. Legge, D.J. Kersten,
R.A. Shakespeare, and Q. Lei, "Simulating Visibility Under Reduced
Acuity and Contrast Sensitivity, Journal of the Optical Society of
America A, 34(4), 2017.  This paper is available under an open access
agreement:

  https://www.osapublishing.org/josaa/abstract.cfm?uri=josaa-34-4-583

The method is based in part on the algorithm described in E.  Peli,
"Contrast in complex images," Journal of the Optical Society of America
A, 7, 2032-2040, 1990, augmented with parameterization based on standard
clinical measures of acuity and contrast sensitivity, a reduction in one
type of artifact produced by that algorithm, limited support for color,
and the use of HDR imagery.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Documentation is in the "man" directory.

Open source license is at "deva-license.h".

This product includes Radiance software (http://radsite.lbl.gov/)
developed by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
(http://www.lbl.gov/).  It also utilizes code for libfftw
<http://www.fftw.org/>, libpng <http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html>,
and zlib <http://www.zlib.net/>.

For other licenses, see:

    deva-filter/external-libs/fftw-3.3.7/COPYRIGHT
    deva-filter/external-libs/fftw-3.3.7/COPYING
    deva-filter/radiance/copyright.h
    deva-filter/external-libs/libpng-1.6.34/LICENSE
    deva-filter/external-libs/zlib-1.2.11/README

---------------------------------------------------------------------
